Treatment of tinnitus by intratympanic instillation of lignocaine (lidocaine) 2 per cent through ventilation tubes. Idiopathic subjective tinnitus (IST) is one of the most obscure otological pathologies. This paper presents the results of treating IST by intratympanic instillation of lignocaine (lidocaine) 2 per cent through a grommet, for five weekly courses. Fifty-two patients suffering from intractable tinnitus entered this therapeutic trial, but only nine finished all five courses. In one patient, the tinnitus was almost completely abolished, but in all the nine patients the decompensated tinnitus changed to a compensated one. We suggest this mode of treatment for patients that were previously treated by drugs, acupuncture and biofeedback, with disappointing results. Patients should be warned about the side effects of vertigo and vomiting, which subsides gradually with every new instillation, and that the tinnitus may not disappear but will be alleviated, enabling them to cope more easily with the disease and lead a more normal life.
Prospective study of the long-term effects of somatostatin analog (octreotide) on gallbladder function and gallstone formation in Chinese acromegalic patients. This article reports the changes in gallbladder function examined by ultrasonography in 20 Chinese patients with active acromegaly treated with sc injection of the somatostatin analog octreotide in dosages of 300-1500 micrograms/day for a mean of 24.2 +/- 13.9 months. During treatment with octreotide, 17 patients developed sludge, 10 had gallstones, and 1 developed acute cholecystitis requiring surgery. In all of 7 patients examined acutely, gallbladder contractility was inhibited after a single 100-micrograms injection. In 8 patients followed for 24 weeks, gallbladder contractility remained depressed throughout therapy. After withdrawal of octreotide in 10 patients without gallstones, 8 patients assessed had return of normal gallbladder contractility within 1 month. In 8 of the remaining 10 patients who developed gallstones during treatment, gallbladder contractility normalized in 5 patients (3 of whom has disappearance of their stones within 3 weeks), and remained depressed in 3 (2 of whom had stones present at 6 months). Our results suggest that the suppression of gallbladder contractility is the cause of the successive formation of bile sludge, gallstones, and cholecystitis during octreotide therapy in Chinese acromegalic patients. It is therefore very important to follow the changes of gallbladder function during long-term octreotide therapy of acromegalic patients.
A selective dopamine D4 receptor antagonist, NRA0160: a preclinical neuropharmacological profile. NRA0160, 5 - [2- ( 4- ( 3 - fluorobenzylidene) piperidin-1-yl) ethyl] - 4 -(4-fluorophenyl) thiazole-2-carboxamide, has a high affinity for human cloned dopamine D4.2, D4.4 and D4.7 receptors, with Ki values of 0.5, 0.9 and 2.7 nM, respectively. NRA0160 is over 20,000fold more potent at the dopamine D4.2 receptor compared with the human cloned dopamine D2L receptor. NRA0160 has negligible affinity for the human cloned dopamine D3 receptor (Ki=39 nM), rat serotonin (5-HT)2A receptors (Ki=180 nM) and rat alpha1 adrenoceptor (Ki=237 nM). NRA0160 and clozapine antagonized locomotor hyperactivity induced by methamphetamine (MAP) in mice. NRA0160 and clozapine antagonized MAP-induced stereotyped behavior in mice, although their effects did not exceed 50% inhibition, even at the highest dose given. NRA0160 and clozapine significantly induced catalepsy in rats, although their effects did not exceed 50% induction even at the highest dose given. NRA0160 and clozapine significantly reversed the disruption of prepulse inhibition (PPI) in rats produced by apomorphine. NRA0160 and clozapine significantly shortened the phencyclidine (PCP)-induced prolonged swimming latency in rats in a water maze task. These findings suggest that NRA0160 may have unique antipsychotic activities without the liability of motor side effects typical of classical antipsychotics.
Cerebral vasculitis following oral methylphenidate intake in an adult: a case report. Methylphenidate is structurally and functionally similar to amphetamine. Cerebral vasculitis associated with amphetamine abuse is well documented, and in rare cases ischaemic stroke has been reported after methylphenidate intake in children. We report the case of a 63-year-old female who was treated with methylphenidate due to hyperactivity and suffered from multiple ischaemic strokes. We consider drug-induced cerebral vasculitis as the most likely cause of recurrent ischaemic strokes in the absence of any pathological findings during the diagnostic work-up. We conclude that methylphenidate mediated vasculitis should be considered in patients with neurological symptoms and a history of methylphenidate therapy. This potential side-effect, though very rare, represents one more reason to be very restrictive in the use of methylphenidate.
The effects of the adjunctive bupropion on male sexual dysfunction induced by a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor: a double-blind placebo-controlled and randomized study. OBJECTIVE: To determine the safety and efficacy of adjunctive bupropion sustained-release (SR) on male sexual dysfunction (SD) induced by a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), as SD is a common side-effect of SSRIs and the most effective treatments have yet to be determined. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The randomized sample consisted of 234 euthymic men who were receiving some type of SSRI. The men were randomly assigned to bupropion SR (150 mg twice daily, 117) or placebo (twice daily, 117) for 12 weeks. Efficacy was evaluated using the Clinical Global Impression-Sexual Function (CGI-SF; the primary outcome measure), the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF), Arizona Sexual Experience Scale (ASEX), and Erectile Dysfunction Inventory of Treatment Satisfaction (EDITS) (secondary outcome measures). Participants were followed biweekly during study period. RESULTS: After 12 weeks of treatment, the mean (sd) scores for CGI-SF were significantly lower, i.e. better, in patients on bupropion SR, at 2.4 (1.2), than in the placebo group, at 3.9 (1.1) (P= 0.01). Men who received bupropion had a significant increase in the total IIEF score (54.4% vs 1.2%; P= 0.003), and in the five different domains of the IIEF. Total ASEX scores were significantly lower, i.e. better, among men who received bupropion than placebo, at 15.5 (4.3) vs 21.5 (4.7) (P= 0.002). The EDITS scores were 67.4 (10.2) for the bupropion and 36.3 (11.7) for the placebo group (P= 0.001). The ASEX score and CGI-SF score were correlated (P= 0.003). In linear regression analyses the CGI-SF score was not affected significantly by the duration of SD, type of SSRI used and age. CONCLUSIONS: Bupropion is an effective treatment for male SD induced by SSRIs. These results provide empirical support for conducting a further study of bupropion.
Warfarin-induced artery calcification is accelerated by growth and vitamin D. The present studies demonstrate that growth and vitamin D treatment enhance the extent of artery calcification in rats given sufficient doses of Warfarin to inhibit gamma-carboxylation of matrix Gla protein, a calcification inhibitor known to be expressed by smooth muscle cells and macrophages in the artery wall. The first series of experiments examined the influence of age and growth status on artery calcification in Warfarin-treated rats. Treatment for 2 weeks with Warfarin caused massive focal calcification of the artery media in 20-day-old rats and less extensive focal calcification in 42-day-old rats. In contrast, no artery calcification could be detected in 10-month-old adult rats even after 4 weeks of Warfarin treatment. To directly examine the importance of growth to Warfarin-induced artery calcification in animals of the same age, 20-day-old rats were fed for 2 weeks either an ad libitum diet or a 6-g/d restricted diet that maintains weight but prevents growth. Concurrent treatment of both dietary groups with Warfarin produced massive focal calcification of the artery media in the ad libitum-fed rats but no detectable artery calcification in the restricted-diet, growth-inhibited group. Although the explanation for the association between artery calcification and growth status cannot be determined from the present study, there was a relationship between higher serum phosphate and susceptibility to artery calcification, with 30% higher levels of serum phosphate in young, ad libitum-fed rats compared with either of the groups that was resistant to Warfarin-induced artery calcification, ie, the 10-month-old rats and the restricted-diet, growth-inhibited young rats. This observation suggests that increased susceptibility to Warfarin-induced artery calcification could be related to higher serum phosphate levels. The second set of experiments examined the possible synergy between vitamin D and Warfarin in artery calcification. High doses of vitamin D are known to cause calcification of the artery media in as little as 3 to 4 days. High doses of the vitamin K antagonist Warfarin are also known to cause calcification of the artery media, but at treatment times of 2 weeks or longer yet not at 1 week. In the current study, we investigated the synergy between these 2 treatments and found that concurrent Warfarin administration dramatically increased the extent of calcification in the media of vitamin D-treated rats at 3 and 4 days. There was a close parallel between the effect of vitamin D dose on artery calcification and the effect of vitamin D dose on the elevation of serum calcium, which suggests that vitamin D may induce artery calcification through its effect on serum calcium. Because Warfarin treatment had no effect on the elevation in serum calcium produced by vitamin D, the synergy between Warfarin and vitamin D is probably best explained by the hypothesis that Warfarin inhibits the activity of matrix Gla protein as a calcification inhibitor. High levels of matrix Gla protein are found at sites of artery calcification in rats treated with vitamin D plus Warfarin, and chemical analysis showed that the protein that accumulated was indeed not gamma-carboxylated. These observations indicate that although the gamma-carboxyglutamate residues of matrix Gla protein are apparently required for its function as a calcification inhibitor, they are not required for its accumulation at calcification sites.
Blood pressure response to chronic low-dose intrarenal noradrenaline infusion in conscious rats. Sodium chloride solution (0.9%) or noradrenaline in doses of 4, 12 and 36 micrograms h-1 kg-1 was infused for five consecutive days, either intrarenally (by a new technique) or intravenously into rats with one kidney removed. Intrarenal infusion of noradrenaline caused hypertension at doses which did not do so when infused intravenously. Intrarenal compared with intravenous infusion of noradrenaline caused higher plasma noradrenaline concentrations and a shift of the plasma noradrenaline concentration-blood pressure effect curve towards lower plasma noradrenaline levels. These results suggest that hypertension after chronic intrarenal noradrenaline infusion is produced by relatively higher levels of circulating noradrenaline and by triggering of an additional intrarenal pressor mechanism.
Comparison of i.v. glycopyrrolate and atropine in the prevention of bradycardia and arrhythmias following repeated doses of suxamethonium in children. The effectiveness of administration of glycopyrrolate 5 and 10 micrograms kg-1 and atropine 10 and 20 micrograms kg-1 i.v. immediately before the induction of anaesthesia, to prevent arrhythmia and bradycardia following repeated doses of suxamethonium in children, was studied. A control group was included for comparison with the lower dose range of glycopyrrolate and atropine. A frequency of bradycardia of 50% was noted in the control group, but this was not significantly different from the frequency with the active drugs. Bradycardia (defined as a decrease in heart rate to less than 50 beat min-1) was prevented when the larger dose of either active drug was used. It is recommended that either glycopyrrolate 10 micrograms kg-1 or atropine 20 micrograms kg-1 i.v. should immediately precede induction of anaesthesia, in children, if the repeated administration of suxamethonium is anticipated.
Cauda equina syndrome after epidural steroid injection: a case report. OBJECTIVE: Conventional treatment methods of lumbusacral radiculopathy are physical therapy, epidural steroid injections, oral medications, and spinal manipulative therapy. Cauda equina syndrome is a rare complication of epidural anesthesia. The following case is a report of cauda equina syndrome possibly caused by epidural injection of triamcinolone and bupivacaine. CLINICAL FEATURES: A 50-year-old woman with low back and right leg pain was scheduled for epidural steroid injection. INTERVENTION AND OUTCOME: An 18-gauge Touhy needle was inserted until loss of resistance occurred at the L4-5 level. Spread of the contrast medium within the epidural space was determined by radiographic imaging. After verifying the epidural space, bupivacaine and triamcinolone diacetate were injected. After the injection, there was a reduction in radicular symptoms. Three hours later, she complained of perineal numbness and lower extremity weakness. The neurologic evaluation revealed loss of sensation in the saddle area and medial aspect of her right leg. There was a decrease in the perception of pinprick test. Deep-tendon reflexes were decreased especially in the right leg. She was unable to urinate. The patient's symptoms improved slightly over the next few hours. She had a gradual return of motor function and ability of feeling Foley catheter. All of the symptoms were completely resolved over the next 8 hours. CONCLUSION: Complications associated with epidural steroid injections are rare. Clinical examination and continued vigilance for neurologic deterioration after epidural steroid injections is important.
Bladder retention of urine as a result of continuous intravenous infusion of fentanyl: 2 case reports. Sedation has been commonly used in the neonate to decrease the stress and pain from the noxious stimuli and invasive procedures in the neonatal intensive care unit, as well as to facilitate synchrony between ventilator and spontaneous breaths. Fentanyl, an opioid analgesic, is frequently used in the neonatal intensive care unit setting for these very purposes. Various reported side effects of fentanyl administration include chest wall rigidity, hypotension, respiratory depression, and bradycardia. Here, 2 cases of urinary bladder retention leading to renal pelvocalyceal dilatation mimicking hydronephrosis as a result of continuous infusion of fentanyl are reported.
Noradrenergic involvement in catalepsy induced by delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol. In order to elucidate the role of the catecholaminergic system in the cataleptogenic effect of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the effect of pretreatment with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) or with desipramine and 6-OHDA and lesions of the locus coeruleus were investigated in rats. The cataleptogenic effect of THC was significantly reduced in rats treated with 6-OHDA and in rats with lesions of the locus coeruleus but not in rats treated with desipramine and 6-OHDA, as compared with control rats. On the contrary, the cataleptogenic effect of haloperidol was significantly reduced in rats treated with desipramine and 6-OHDA but not in rats treated with 6-OHDA or in rats with lesions of the locus coeruleus. These results indicate that noradrenergic neurons have an important role in the manifestation of catalepsy induced by THC, whereas dopaminergic neurons are important in catalepsy induced by haloperidol.
Pseudo-allergic reactions to corticosteroids: diagnosis and alternatives. Two patients treated with parenteral paramethasone (Triniol) and dexamethasone (Sedionbel) are described. A few minutes after administration of the drugs, they presented urticaria (patients 1 and 2) and conjunctivitis (patient 1). The purpose of our study was to determine the cause of the patients' reactions, the immunological mechanisms involved and whether these patients would be able to tolerate any kind of corticoid. Clinical examinations and skin, oral and parenteral challenges with different corticosteroids and ELISA tests were performed. In the two patients, skin and ELISA tests with paramethasone were negative, as was the prick test with each of its excipients. A single-blind parenteral challenge with Triniol was positive in both patients after the administration of 1 ml of the drug, and negative with its excipients. We also carried out oral and parenteral challenges with other corticosteroids and found intolerance to some of them. These results suggest that paramethasone caused pseudoallergic reactions in our patients. Corticosteroids different from paramethasone also produced hypersensitivity reactions in these patients; however, a few of them were tolerated. The basic mechanisms of those reactions are not yet fully understood. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a pseudo-allergy caused by paramethasone.
Dup 753 prevents the development of puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis. The appearance of nephrotic syndromes such as proteinuria, hypoalbuminemia, hypercholesterolemia and increase in blood nitrogen urea, induced in rats by injection of puromycin aminonucleoside was markedly inhibited by oral administration of Dup 753 (losartan), a novel angiotensin II receptor antagonist, at a dose of 1 or 2 mg/kg per day. The results suggest a possible involvement of the renin-angiotensin system in the development of puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis.
A novel, multiple symptom model of obsessive-compulsive-like behaviors in animals. BACKGROUND: Current animal models of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) typically involve acute, drug-induced symptom provocation or a genetic association with stereotypies or anxiety. None of these current models demonstrate multiple OCD-like behaviors. METHODS: Neonatal rats were treated with the tricyclic antidepressant clomipramine or vehicle between days 9 and 16 twice daily and behaviorally tested in adulthood. RESULTS: Clomipramine exposure in immature rats produced significant behavioral and biochemical changes that include enhanced anxiety (elevated plus maze and marble burying), behavioral inflexibility (perseveration in the spontaneous alternation task and impaired reversal learning), working memory impairment (e.g., win-shift paradigm), hoarding, and corticostriatal dysfunction. Dopamine D2 receptors were elevated in the striatum, whereas serotonin 2C, but not serotonin 1A, receptors were elevated in the orbital frontal cortex. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first demonstration of multiple symptoms consistent with an OCD-like profile in animals. Moreover, these behaviors are accompanied by biochemical changes in brain regions previously identified as relevant to OCD. This novel model of OCD demonstrates that drug exposure during a sensitive period can program disease-like systems permanently, which could have implications for current and future therapeutic strategies for this and other psychiatric disorders.
Effect of some anticancer drugs and combined chemotherapy on renal toxicity. The nephrotoxic action of anticancer drugs such as nitrogranulogen (NG), methotrexate (MTX), 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and cyclophosphamide (CY) administered alone or in combination [MTX + 5-FU + CY (CMF)] was evaluated in experiments on Wistar rats. After drug administration, creatinine concentrations in the plasma and in the urine of the rats were determined, as well as creatinine clearance. Histopathologic evaluation of the kidneys was also performed. After MTX administration a significant increase (p = 0.0228) in the plasma creatinine concentration and a significant (p = 0.0001) decrease in creatinine clearance was noted compared to controls. After the administration of NG, 5-FU and CY neither a statistically significant increase in creatinine concentration nor an increase in creatinine clearance was observed compared to the group receiving no cytostatics. Following polytherapy according to the CMF regimen, a statistically significant decrease (p = 0.0343) in creatinine clearance was found, but creatinine concentration did not increase significantly compared to controls. CY caused hemorrhagic cystitis in 40% of rats, but it did not cause this complication when combined with 5-FU and MTX. Histologic changes were found in rat kidneys after administration of MTX, CY and NG, while no such change was observed after 5-FU and joint administration of MTX + 5-FU + CY compared to controls. Our studies indicate that nephrotoxicity of MTX + 5-FU + CY administered jointly is lower than in monotherapy.
Extrapyramidal side effects with risperidone and haloperidol at comparable D2 receptor occupancy levels. Risperidone is an antipsychotic drug with high affinity at dopamine D2 and serotonin 5-HT2 receptors. Previous clinical studies have proposed that risperidone's pharmacologic profile may produce improved efficacy for negative psychotic symptoms and decreased propensity for extrapyramidal side effects; features shared by so-called 'atypical' neuroleptics. To determine if routine risperidone treatment is associated with a unique degree of D2 receptor occupancy and pattern of clinical effects, we used [123I]IBZM SPECT to determine D2 occupancy in subjects treated with routine clinical doses of risperidone (n = 12) or haloperidol (n = 7). Both risperidone and haloperidol produced D2 occupancy levels between approximately 60 and 90% at standard clinical doses. There was no significant difference between occupancy levels obtained with haloperidol or risperidone. Drug-induced parkinsonism was observed in subjects treated with risperidone (42%) and haloperidol (29%) and was observed at occupancy levels above 60%. Based on these observations, it is concluded that 5-HT2 blockade obtained with risperidone at D2 occupancy rates of 60% and above does not appear to protect against the risk for extrapyramidal side effects.
The use and toxicity of didanosine (ddI) in HIV antibody-positive individuals intolerant to zidovudine (AZT) One hundred and fifty-one patients intolerant to zidovudine (AZT) received didanosine (ddI) to a maximum dose of 12.5 mg/kg/day. Patient response was assessed using changes in CD4+ lymphocyte subset count, HIV p24 antigen, weight, and quality of life. Seventy patients developed major opportunistic infections whilst on therapy; this was the first AIDS diagnosis in 17. Only minor changes in CD4+ lymphocyte subset count were observed in AIDS patients, although a more significant rise occurred in those with earlier stages of disease. Of those positive for p24 antigen at the commencement of the study 67% showed a positive response, and this was most likely in those with CD4+ lymphocyte subset counts above 100 mm3. A positive weight response was seen in 16% of patients. Most patients showed improvement in individual parameters and global score of quality of life. Adverse reactions possibly attributable to didanosine were common. The most common side-effect was diarrhoea, which resulted in cessation of therapy in 19 individuals. Peripheral neuropathy occurred in 12 patients and pancreatitis in six. Thirteen patients developed a raised serum amylase without abdominal pain. Seven patients developed glucose tolerance curves characteristic of diabetes but these were mild, did not require treatment and returned to normal on ceasing didanosine.
Protection against amphetamine-induced neurotoxicity toward striatal dopamine neurons in rodents by LY274614, an excitatory amino acid antagonist. LY274614, 3SR,4aRS,6SR,8aRS-6-[phosphonomethyl]decahydr oisoquinoline-3- carboxylic acid, has been described as a potent antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor. Here its ability to antagonize the prolonged depletion of dopamine in the striatum by amphetamine in iprindole-treated rats is reported. A single 18.4 mg/kg (i.p.) dose of (+/-)-amphetamine hemisulfate, given to rats pretreated with iprindole, resulted in persistent depletion of dopamine in the striatum 1 week later. This prolonged depletion of dopamine in the striatum was antagonized by dizocilpine (MK-801, a non-competitive antagonist of NMDA receptors) or by LY274614 (a competitive antagonist of NMDA receptors). The protective effect of LY274614 was dose-dependent, being maximum at 10-40 mgkg (i.p.). A 10 mg/kg dose of LY274614 was effective in antagonizing the depletion of dopamine in the striatum, when given as long as 8 hr prior to amphetamine but not when given 24 hr prior to amphetamine. Depletion of dopamine in the striatum was also antagonized when LY274614 was given after the injection of amphetamine; LY274614 protected when given up to 4 hr after but not when given 8 or 24 hr after amphetamine. The prolonged depletion of dopamine in the striatum in mice, given multiple injections of methamphetamine, was also antagonized dose-dependently and completely by LY274614. The data strengthen the evidence that the neurotoxic effect of amphetamine and related compounds toward nigrostriatal dopamine neurons involves NMDA receptors and that LY274614 is an NMDA receptor antagonist with long-lasting in vivo effects in rats.
Reduction in caffeine toxicity by acetaminophen. A patient who allegedly consumed 100 tablets of an over-the-counter analgesic containing sodium acetylsalicylate, caffeine, and acetaminophen displayed no significant CNS stimulation despite the presence of 175 micrograms of caffeine per mL of serum. Because salicylates have been reported to augment the stimulatory effects of caffeine on the CNS, attention was focused on the possibility that the presence of acetaminophen (52 micrograms/mL) reduced the CNS toxicity of caffeine. Studies in DBA/2J mice showed that: 1) pretreatment with acetaminophen (100 mg/kg) increased the interval between the administration of caffeine (300 to 450 mg/kg IP) and the onset of fatal convulsions by a factor of about two; and 2) pretreatment with acetaminophen (75 mg/kg) reduced the incidence of audiogenic seizures produced in the presence of caffeine (12.5 to 75 mg/kg IP). The frequency of sound-induced seizures after 12.5 or 25 mg/kg caffeine was reduced from 50 to 5% by acetaminophen. In the absence of caffeine, acetaminophen (up to 300 mg/kg) did not modify the seizures induced by maximal electroshock and did not alter the convulsant dose of pentylenetetrezol in mice (tests performed by the Anticonvulsant Screening Project of NINCDS). Acetaminophen (up to 150 micrograms/mL) did not retard the incorporation of radioactive adenosine into ATP in slices of rat cerebral cortex. Thus the mechanism by which acetaminophen antagonizes the actions of caffeine in the CNS remains unknown.
5-azacytidine potentiates initiation induced by carcinogens in rat liver. To test the validity of the hypothesis that hypomethylation of DNA plays an important role in the initiation of carcinogenic process, 5-azacytidine (5-AzC) (10 mg/kg), an inhibitor of DNA methylation, was given to rats during the phase of repair synthesis induced by the three carcinogens, benzo[a]-pyrene (200 mg/kg), N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (60 mg/kg) and 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (1,2-DMH) (100 mg/kg). The initiated hepatocytes in the liver were assayed as the gamma-glutamyltransferase (gamma-GT) positive foci formed following a 2-week selection regimen consisting of dietary 0.02% 2-acetylaminofluorene coupled with a necrogenic dose of CCl4. The results obtained indicate that with all three carcinogens, administration of 5-AzC during repair synthesis increased the incidence of initiated hepatocytes, for example 10-20 foci/cm2 in 5-AzC and carcinogen-treated rats compared with 3-5 foci/cm2 in rats treated with carcinogen only. Administration of [3H]-5-azadeoxycytidine during the repair synthesis induced by 1,2-DMH further showed that 0.019 mol % of cytosine residues in DNA were substituted by the analogue, indicating that incorporation of 5-AzC occurs during repair synthesis. In the absence of the carcinogen, 5-AzC given after a two thirds partial hepatectomy, when its incorporation should be maximum, failed to induce any gamma-GT positive foci. The results suggest that hypomethylation of DNA per se may not be sufficient for initiation. Perhaps two events might be necessary for initiation, the first caused by the carcinogen and a second involving hypomethylation of DNA.
Epidemic of liver disease caused by hydrochlorofluorocarbons used as ozone-sparing substitutes of chlorofluorocarbons. BACKGROUND: Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) are used increasingly in industry as substitutes for ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). Limited studies in animals indicate potential hepatotoxicity of some of these compounds. We investigated an epidemic of liver disease in nine industrial workers who had had repeated accidental exposure to a mixture of 1,1-dichloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane (HCFC 123) and 1-chloro-1,2,2,2-tetrafluoroethane (HCFC 124). All nine exposed workers were affected to various degrees. Both compounds are metabolised in the same way as 1-bromo-1-chloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane (halothane) to form reactive trifluoroacetyl halide intermediates, which have been implicated in the hepatotoxicity of halothane. We aimed to test whether HCFCs 123 and 124 can result in serious liver disease. METHODS: For one severely affected worker liver biopsy and immunohistochemical stainings for the presence of trifluoroacetyl protein adducts were done. The serum of six affected workers and five controls was tested for autoantibodies that react with human liver cytochrome-P450 2E1 (P450 2E1) and P58 protein disulphide isomerase isoform (P58). FINDINGS: The liver biopsy sample showed hepatocellular necrosis which was prominent in perivenular zone three and extended focally from portal tracts to portal tracts and centrilobular areas (bridging necrosis). Trifluoroacetyl-adducted proteins were detected in surviving hepatocytes. Autoantibodies against P450 2E1 or P58, previously associated with halothane hepatitis, were detected in the serum of five affected workers. INTERPRETATION: Repeated exposure of human beings to HCFCs 123 and 124 can result in serious liver injury in a large proportion of the exposed population. Although the exact mechanism of hepatotoxicity of these agents is not known, the results suggest that trifluoroacetyl-altered liver proteins are involved. In view of the potentially widespread use of these compounds, there is an urgent need to develop safer alternatives.
Elevation of ADAM10, ADAM17, MMP-2 and MMP-9 expression with media degeneration features CaCl2-induced thoracic aortic aneurysm in a rat model. PURPOSE: This study was designed to establish a rat model of thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) by calcium chloride (CaCl(2))-induced arterial injury and to explore the potential role of a disintegrin and metalloproteinase (ADAM), matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and their endogenous inhibitors (TIMPs) in TAA formation. METHODS: Thoracic aorta of male Sprague-Dawley rats was exposed to 0.5M CaCl(2) or normal saline (NaCl). After 12weeks, animals were euthanized, and CaCl(2)-treated, CaCl(2)-untreated (n=12) and NaCl-treated aortic segments (n=12) were collected for histological and molecular assessments. MMP-TIMP and ADAM mRNAs were semi-quantitatively analyzed and protein expressions were determined by immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: Despite similar external diameters among CaCl(2)-treated, non-CaCl(2)-treated and NaCl-treated segments, aneurymal alteration (n=6, 50%), media degeneration with regional disruption, fragmentation of elastic fiber, and increased collagen deposition (n=12, 100%) were demonstrated in CaCl(2)-treated segments. MMP-2, MMP-9, ADAM-10 and ADAM-17 mRNA levels were increased in CaCl(2)-treated segments (all p<0.01), with trends of elevation in CaCl(2)-untreated segments, as compared with NaCl-treated segments. Immunohistochemistry displayed significantly increased expressions of MMP-2, MMP-9, ADAM-10 and ADAM-17 (all p<0.01) in intima and media for CaCl(2)-treated segments. TIMP mRNA and tissue levels did not differ obviously among the three aortic segments. CONCLUSION: This study establishes a TAA model by periarterial CaCl(2) exposure in rats, and demonstrates a significant elevation of expression of MMP-2, MMP-9, ADAM10 and ADAM17 in the pathogenesis of vascular remodeling.
Clinical and histopathologic examination of renal allografts treated with tacrolimus (FK506) for at least one year. BACKGROUND: We clinically and pathologically analyzed renal allografts from 1 9 renal transplant patients treated with tacrolimus (FK506) for more than 1 year. METHODS: Twenty-six renal allograft biopsy specimens from 1 9 renal transplant patients who underwent transplantations between 1991 and 1993 were evaluated. Thirteen biopsies were performed from stable functioning renal allografts with informed consent (nonepisode biopsy) and the other 13 were from dysfunctional renal allografts with a clinical indication for biopsy (episode biopsy). RESULTS: The main pathologic diagnoses (some overlap) were acute rejection (AR; n = 4), chronic rejection (CR; n=5), AR+CR (n =4), recurrent IgA nephropathy (n =5), normal findings (n =2), minimal-type chronic FK506 nephropathy (n = 9), and mild-type FK506 nephropathy (n = 11). Of the nonepisode biopsies, 7 and 4 biopsies showed minimal-type and mild-type chronic FK506 nephropathy, respectively. Chronic FK506 nephropathy consisted of rough and foamy tubular vacuolization (5 biopsies), arteriolopathy (angiodegeneration of the arteriolar wall; 20 biopsies), focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (4 biopsies) and the striped form of interstitial fibrosis (11 biopsies). The serum creatinine levels of patients in the mild-type chronic FK506 nephropathy group, which included 7 episode biopsies, were statistically higher than those in the minimum-type chronic FK506-nephropathy group (P< 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that chronic FK506 nephropathy consists primarily of arteriolopathy manifesting as insudative hyalinosis of the arteriolar wall, and suggests that mild-type chronic FK506 nephropathy is a condition which may lead to deterioration of renal allograft function.
Epileptic seizures following cortical application of fibrin sealants containing tranexamic acid in rats. BACKGROUND: Fibrin sealants (FS) derived from human plasma are frequently used in neurosurgery. In order to increase clot stability, FS typically contain aprotinin, a natural fibrinolysis inhibitor. Recently, synthetic fibrinolysis inhibitors such as tranexamic acid (tAMCA) have been considered as substitutes for aprotinin. However, tAMCA has been shown to cause epileptic seizures. We wanted to study whether tAMCA retains its convulsive action if incorporated into a FS. METHOD: FS containing aprotinin or different concentrations of tAMCA (0.5-47.5 mg/ml) were applied to the pial surface of the cortex of anaesthetized rats. The response of the animals was evaluated using electroencephalography and by monitoring the clinical behaviour during and after recovery from anaesthesia. FINDINGS: FS containing tAMCA caused paroxysmal brain activity which was associated with distinct convulsive behaviours. The degree of these seizures increased with increasing concentration of tAMCA. Thus, FS containing 47.5 mg/ml tAMCA evoked generalized seizures in all tested rats (n=6) while the lowest concentration of tAMCA (0.5 mg/ml) only evoked brief episodes of jerk-correlated convulsive potentials in 1 of 6 rats. In contrast, FS containing aprotinin did not evoke any paroxysmal activity. INTERPRETATION: Tranexamic acid retains its convulsive action within FS. Thus, use of FS containing tAMCA for surgery within or close to the CNS may pose a substantial risk to the patient.
Maternal lithium and neonatal Ebstein's anomaly: evaluation with cross-sectional echocardiography. Cross-sectional echocardiography was used to evaluate two neonates whose mothers ingested lithium during pregnancy. In one infant, Ebstein's anomaly of the tricuspid valve was identified. In the other infant cross-sectional echocardiography provided reassurance that the infant did not have Ebstein's anomaly. Cross-sectional echocardiographic screening of newborns exposed to lithium during gestation can provide highly accurate, noninvasive assessment of the presence or absence of lithium-induced cardiac malformations.
